FOR A DAY HERE.
GOOD MORNING TO YOU.
FEDERAL AUTHORITIES NOW
CHARGING DOZENS OF WEALTHY
PARENTS ARE BRIBERY AND FRAUD
FOR ALLEGEDLY BUYING THEIR
CHILDREN ADMISSION TO ELITE
COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES.
AMONG THOSE NAMED TV ACTRESSES
FELICITY HUFFMAN AND LORI
LOUGHLIN.
THE F.B.I. BREAKING THE CASE
YESTERDAY DURING OUR PROGRAM
AFTER A MASSIVE NATIONWIDE
INVESTIGATION.
>> MAKE NO MISTAKE, THIS IS NOT
A CASE WHERE PARENTS WERE
ACTING IN THE BEST INTERESTS OF
THEIR CHILDREN.
THIS IS A CASE WHERE THEY
FLAUNTED THEIR WEALTH, SPARING
NO EXPENSE TO CHEAT THE SYSTEM
SO THEY COULD SET THEIR
CHILDREN UP FOR SUCCESS WITH
THE BEST EDUCATION MONEY COULD
BUY LITERALLY.
>> Bill: DR. WILLIAM BENNETT
FORMER SECRETARY OF EDUCATION,
HOST OF THE WISE GUYS ON FOX
NATION AND FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR.
GREAT TO HAVE YOU BACK.
THANK YOU FOR ACCEPTING OUR
INVITATION.
ONE OF THE MAIN POINTS YOU'RE
MAKING HERE, BILL, IS HOW MUCH
INTEREST THIS STORY HAS
CAPTURED.
WHY DO YOU THINK THAT IS?
>> EVEN BIGGER THAN THE ODELL
BECKHAM STORY, BILL, AT LEAST
TO ME.
I THINK TO YOU AS WELL.
BUT SERIOUSLY, THE MOST
INTERESTING THING ABOUT THE
STORY IS THE INTEREST IT IS
GENERATING.
HOW BIG IT IS AND HOW MUCH IT
MATTERS TO THE AMERICAN PEOPLE.
YOU STEP BACK AND WONDER WHY,
BECAUSE PEOPLE KNOW IN THEIR
HEARTS THAT PEOPLE WHO HAVE
RESOURCES HAVE ADVANTAGES.
THAT'S WHAT RESOURCES MEANS,
YOU HAVE ADVANTAGES.
IN THE CASE OF THEIR KIDS THEY
CAN MOVE IF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
AREN'T GOOD TO AN AREA WHERE
THE SCHOOLS ARE GOOD OR THEY
CAN BUY A PRIVATE SCHOOL
EDUCATION, TUTORS, SUMMER
PROGRAMS TO ENRICH THAT RESUME.
BUT I THINK WHAT SHOCKED PEOPLE
HERE WAS THE OUTRIGHT FRAUD,
THE CHEATING, THE DEGREE TO
WHICH PEOPLE WILL GO TO ADVANCE
THEIR CHILDREN'S INTEREST AND
THAT'S RIGGING THE SYSTEM AND
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE REACT
VISCERALLY TO THAT AND THEY'RE
CORRECT TO REACT VISCERALLY TO
THAT.
>> Sandra: YOU WONDER IF IT'S
THE TIP OF THE ICEBERG, THE
U.S. ATTORNEYS OFFICE AND IRS
MADE THIS OFFICE YESTERDAY SAID
THEY'RE STILL LOOKING INTO
OTHER PARENTS WHO HAVE DONE
THIS, OTHER COACHES AND
UNIVERSITIES THAT THIS DOES
EFFECT.
>> YOU HAVE THE HOLLYWOOD
DIMENSION, WHICH HELPS WITH THE
HEADLINES.
BUT YOU'VE ALSO GOT SOME CEOs,
SOME VERY ESTABLISHED PEOPLE
WHO WERE INVOLVED IN THIS.
AND AGAIN, REMEMBER, I WAS
SECRETARY OF EDUCATION AND I
DID A RADIO SHOW AND I DO A
PODCAST NOW.
THE THING I GET CALLS FROM AND
NOTES FROM THE MOST IS FROM
PARENTS SEEKING ADVICE ABOUT
THEIR KIDS' COLLEGE.
WHAT WOULD YOU ADVISE, WHERE
SHOULD SHE GO, WHERE SHOULD HE
APPLY?
TO AMERICANS COLLEGE IS THE WAY
UP.
THE WAY TO UPWARD MOBILITY TO
SUCCEED.
TO THINK THAT THE SYSTEM IS
BEING GAMED TO THIS DEGREE I
THINK REALLY SHOCKS AND
DISTURBS PEOPLE.
I HAVE TO SAY BASED ON THE
EVIDENCE, I THINK I KNOW THIS
PRETTY WELL, IT IS NOT THE MOST
IMPORTANT CHOICE -- MOST
IMPORTANT FACTOR IN A PERSON'S
SUCCESS.
IT HAS TO DO MORE WITH THE
PERSONS ABILITY.
THE S.A.T. SCORES ARE A BETTER
PREDICTOR THAN WHERE YOU GO TO
COLLEGE.
FACTORS OF GRIT AND
DETERMINATION.
YOUR ABILITY TO SET A TASK FOR
YOURSELF.
THESE ARE MORE IMPORTANT.
BUT A FACT IS A FACT.
THE FACT IS AMERICANS CARE
DEEPLY ABOUT WHERE THEIR KIDS
GO TO SCHOOL.
>> Bill: ONE THING THAT STRIKES
ME.
THIS WORLD IS FAUX FOR SO MANY.
YOU CAN MAKE IT SO BASED ON
TECHNOLOGY.
THERE ARE REPORTS THAT SOME OF
THESE HEAD SHOTS WERE PHOTO
SHOPPED ONTO THE BODY OF OTHER
YOUNG ATHLETES AND THEY WOULD
USE THAT IN ORDER TO MAKE THE
PITCH THAT THEY SHOULD BE ON
THE ROWING TEAM OR WHICHEVER
AVENUE THEY CHOSE.
YOU THINK A LOT ABOUT THE
MILLENNIAL GENERATION AND THE
TECHNOLOGY THAT COLLIDES IN
THEIR LIFE ON A DAILY BASIS.
YOU CAN LIVE A LIFE THAT'S OF
YOUR OWN MAKING AND IT IS ALL
ONLINE.
>> ENTIRELY FALSE.
>> AND IT'S PHONY.
>> YEAH, THAT'S RIGHT.
HERE THE SYSTEM WAS USED, GAMED
BY THIS MR. SINGER, THE GUY WHO
FINALLY WENT STATE'S EVIDENCE
HERE WHO WENT TO PARENTS AND
SAID I'LL DO THIS.
AND WHAT DO PARENTS SAY.
THIS GUY SAYS WE'LL PUT YOUR
CHILD'S HEAD ON A WATER POLO
PLAYER EVEN THOUGH THE CHILD
HAS NEVER SEEN A WATER POLO
GAME BUT THAT WILL GET THE
CHILD INTO STANFORD.
IT IS ENTIRELY CYNICAL AND VERY
DISCOURAGING TO A LOT OF FOLKS.
YES, THERE WILL BE MORE.
SUSAN IS RIGHT.
THERE WILL BE MORE PEOPLE
INVOLVED AND I THINK WE'LL HEAR
MORE ABOUT THIS.
THE OTHER THING IS IF I CAN FOR
A SECOND, THIS PLAYS INTO A
DEEP WORRY THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
HAVE, I SHARE THAT WORRY.
WE SEE IT IN POLITICS.
THIS WAS APPEALED TO BY DONALD
TRUMP AND BERNIE SANDERS.
IS THE SYSTEM RIGGED?
DO YOU REMEMBER WHEN DONALD
TRUMP SAID IS THE SYSTEM RIGGED?
BERNIE SANDERS ASKED THE SAME
QUESTION.
IN HIS CASE IT WAS RIGHT.
PEOPLE BELIEVE THAT AMERICA IS
ABOUT EQUAL OPPORTUNITY.
NO PRIVILEGE.
BILL CLINTON, WORK HARD AND
PLAY BY THE RULES.
THIS IS A CLEAR VIOLATION OF
THE RULES AND PEOPLE ARE REALLY
MAD ABOUT IT.
>> Sandra: REALLY MAD ABOUT IT
AND YOU DON'T HAVE TO LOOK FAR
WHETHER IN YOUR OWN
NEIGHBORHOOD OR AT WORK AND
TALKING TO SOMEBODY WHO SITS BY
AND YOU WORK CLOSELY WITH.
PARENTS ARE STRESSED TO THE
NINES WHEN THEY'VE GOT KIDS
THAT AGE OR HIGH SCHOOL WHERE
THEY'RE TRYING TO GET THEM INTO
THESE COLLEGES, BILL, AND IT IS
A STRESSFUL SITUATION AND THE
PARENTS AND THE KIDS.
AND THERE ARE PEOPLE WHO ARE
WORKING NIGHT AND DAY TO TRY TO
GET THEIR KIDS TO THESE SCHOOLS.
CARROLL ROSS PENNED A PIECE.
COLLEGE CHEATING SCANDAL SHOULD
MAKE BLUE COLLAR FAMILIES
ABSOLUTELY FURIOUS.
THIS HAS MADE EVERYBODY REALIZE
THAT IF SYSTEM IS AND CAN BE
RIGGED.
>> CAN BE RIGGED AND THE
OBSESSION OF PARENTS FNLTS WE
LIVE IN A COMFORTABLE
NEIGHBORHOOD IN A D.C. SUB URDS.
I REMEMBER HEARING ABOUT A
PARENT FROM A GREAT PRE-SCHOOL
FOR 4-YEAR-OLDS.
THAT FEEDS INTO THIS SCHOOL AND
FEEDS INTO THIS PREP SCHOOL AND
FEEDS INTO HARVARD.
THE PRESSURE IS ON THE
4-YEAR-OLD.
PARENTS NEED TO STEP BACK A
LITTLE BIT ON THIS AND REALIZE
THIS IS NOT ALL OF LIFE.
BUT LOOK, THE GAME NEEDS TO BE
FAIR, THE RULES NEED TO BE
OBSERVED AND I'M GLAD THESE
PEOPLE WILL FACE THE LAW AND